---
title: Notes/Works Cited
subtitle: Editor's notes and Works Cited page
layout: default
modal-id: 5
date: 2014-07-14
img: Notes2.png
thumbnail: Notes3.png
alt: image-alt
project-date: April 2014
client: Start Bootstrap
category: Web Development
description: Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, usu cu alterum nominavi lobortis. At duo novum diceret. Tantas apeirian vix et, usu sanctus postulant inciderint ut, populo diceret necessitatibus in vim. Cu eum dicam feugiat noluisse.

---

### Notes

With this project, I wanted to look at the future of technology. It’s an interesting subject, and one that gets a lot of attention, but I wanted to approach the topic from the lens of how technology will affect our daily lives. That’s really why we make technology in the first place right? I want to put the focus on the changes that the average person will see as we move into the future. After all, the newest iPhone doesn’t matter if it doesn’t improve the way people live, work, and play.

### Works Cited

<pre>
Bassingthwaighte, Mark. “26 Actions to Take To Become Cyber Secure.” Solo Practice
    University®, Solo Practice University®, 21 Aug. 2018, solopracticeuniversity.com/2018/08/21/26-actions-to-take-to-become-cyber-secure/.

“Blacksmithing Ancient Egyptian Copper Chisels.” Pinterest, Instructables, 
    www.pinterest.com/pin/494762709033401065/.

Carr, Karen. “Who Invented Paper? Ancient China and the History of Paper.” Quatr.us Study 
    Guides, 2 Oct. 2018, quatr.us/china/invented-paper-ancient-china.htm.

Dughi, Paul. “A Simple Explanation of How Blockchain Works – The Mission – 
    Medium.” Medium, The Mission, 4 Feb. 2018, medium.com/the-mission/a-simple-explanation-on-how-blockchain-works-e52f75da6e9a.

“Electronic Gadgets with Huge Discounts.” Siliconindia, Siliconindia, 16 Aug. 2016, 
    www.siliconindia.com/gadget/news/Electronic-Gadgets-with-Huge-Discounts-nid-197691.html.

Fischer, Andrew. “How Regulation and Technology Are Shaping the Future of Privacy and 
    Security.” Home - Enterprise & Government - Australia Post, Australia Post, 26 May 2017,auspostenterprise.com.au/insights/digitising-services/future-of-privacy-and-security-using-tech.

Jewitt, Tom. “Image Development, Steam Engine - Tom Jewett.” Tom Jewett Photography, 
    2018, www.tomjewettphotography.com/TechyStuff/Image-Development-Steam-Engine/.

Kharpal, Arjun. “Samsung Launches Its First Triple Camera Smartphone in a Shift to Its
    Mid-End Strategy.” CNBC, CNBC, 20 Sept. 2018 www.cnbc.com/2018/09/20/samsung-galaxy-a7-company-launches-its-first-triple-camera-smartphone.html.

Koenig, Brett. “Blockchain, Worth More Than a Bitcoin.” ACM@UC General Body Meeting.
    ACM@UC General Body Meeting, 13 Sept. 2018, Cincinnati, OH

“Lecture on 'Vallejo's Printing Press' at Sonoma Mission.” Sonoma Index Tribune, Sonoma 
    Index Tribune, 8 Sept. 2018 www.sonomanews.com/news/8692965-181/lecture-on-vallejos-printing-press.

“Mars.” SpaceX, SpaceX, 20 Sept. 2016, www.spacex.com/mars.

“Mellon Farms.” Mellon Farms, 2018, mellonfarms.com/.

“Radio Clipart Old Radio ~ Frames ~ Illustrations ~ HD Images ~ Photo 
    Designs.” Kathleenhalme, kathleenhalme.com/explore/radio-clipart-old-radio/.

Scharping, Nathaniel. “Teaching Old-School Light Bulbs a New Trick.” D-Brief, Discover,
    12 Jan. 2016, blogs.discovermagazine.com/d-brief/2016/01/12/reinventing-the-lightbulb/.

“Wheel.” Wikipedia, Wikimedia Foundation, 1 Nov. 2018, en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wheel.
</pre>